{\rtf1\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss Helvetica;\f2\fmodern Courier;}\paperw12000\paperh8000\margl40\margr40
\pard\f0\fs24\cf0 Portable Object Compiler (c) 1998,2023.  All Rights Reserved.\fs16\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\f1\b\fs56\li2200 Message\f0\b0\fs16\
\
\
\
\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 {\b {\f1 Inherits from:}} Object\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 {\b {\f1 Maturity Index:}} Experimental\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs36\li1400 Class Description\b0\f0\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 Message instances are used for forwarding Objective-C messages.  When an object doesn't respond to a message, the {\f2 doesNotUnderstand:} method is invoked, with an argument that is an instance of this class :\fs16\
\
\f2\fs24\li2800 - doesNotUnderstand:msg\
  \{\
    [msg sentTo:someObject];\
    return self;\
  \}\
\
\f0\fs16\
\f0\fs28\li2200 The user may override {\f2 -doesNotUnderstand:} to send a {\f2 sentTo:} message, which will forward the message to {\i someObject}.  If {\i someObject} doesn't respond to the message, it will receive a {\f2 doesNotUnderstand:} message, and so on.\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 {\b {\f1 Note:}} To forward class (factory) methods, override the class method {\f2 +doesNotUnderstand:}.\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 Also see Object's {\f2 doesNotUnderstand:} method for more details.\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs36\li1400 Method types\b0\f0\fs16\
\
\pard\tx2600\fs28\li2600\cf0
{\b Creating Messages}
\pard\tx6000\fs28\fi-3800\li6000\cf0
	- selector:dispatch:args:\
\pard\fs16\
\
\pard\tx2600\fs28\li2600\cf0
{\b Querying Messages}
\pard\tx6000\fs28\fi-3800\li6000\cf0
	- selector\
\pard\fs16\
\
\pard\tx2600\fs28\li2600\cf0
{\b Sending Messages}
\pard\tx6000\fs28\fi-3800\li6000\cf0
	- sentTo:\
\pard\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs36\li1400 Methods\b0\f0\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 selector:dispatch:args:\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 +{\b selector}:(SEL){\i s}{\b dispatch}:(ARGIMP){\i d}{\b args}:(void *){\i a}\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 Creates a Message instance with the indicated selector name and pointer to argument structure.  The argument structure for a message consists of return value of the method (if not void), followed by the arguments of the method :\fs16\
\
\f2\fs24\li2800 struct \{\
  int ret;\
  int a;\
  double d;\
\}\
\f0\fs16\
\f0\fs28\li2200 The above structure corresponds to a method such as (int)foo:(int)a bar:(double)d.\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 The {\i dispatch} argument is a (compiler generated) function that decodes the arguments from the argument structure, and dispatches the messages.\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 selector\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 - (SEL){\b selector}\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 Returns the selector for this message.\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 sentTo:\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 -{\b sentTo}:{\i receiver}\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 Forwards the message to {\i receiver} (if it's not {\b nil}) and returns the message itself ({\i self}), not the return value of the message that was forwarded to {\i receiver}.  The latter return value is associated to the Message instance, so that it can be returned to the sender of the message that caused a {\f2 doesNotUnderstand:} message to be sent.\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\
}
