{\rtf1\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss Helvetica;\f2\fmodern Courier;}\paperw12000\paperh8000\margl40\margr40
\pard\f0\fs24\cf0 Portable Object Compiler (c) 1997,98,99.  All Rights Reserved.\fs16\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\f1\b\fs56\li2200 TextAttribute\f0\b0\fs16\
\
\
\
\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 {\b {\f1 Inherits from:}} Object\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 {\b {\f1 Maturity Index:}} Experimental\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs36\li1400 Class Description\b0\f0\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 Abstract superclass for Text Attributes, as used by the {\b Text} and the {\b RunArray} classes.\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 Typically, an application will subclass {\b TextAttribute} and use its own subclass with the {\b Text} instance method {\f2 addAttribute:}.\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs36\li1400 Method types\b0\f0\fs16\
\
\pard\tx2600\fs28\li2600\cf0
{\b Text Emphasis}
\pard\tx6000\fs28\fi-3800\li6000\cf0
	- normal\
	- new\
	- bold\
	- emphasiscode:\
\pard\fs16\
\
\pard\tx2600\fs28\li2600\cf0
{\b Accessing}
\pard\tx6000\fs28\fi-3800\li6000\cf0
	- emphasiscode\
	- emphasiscode:\
\pard\fs16\
\
\pard\tx2600\fs28\li2600\cf0
{\b Comparison}
\pard\tx6000\fs28\fi-3800\li6000\cf0
	- isEqual:\
\pard\fs16\
\
\pard\tx2600\fs28\li2600\cf0
{\b Coalescing }
\pard\tx6000\fs28\fi-3800\li6000\cf0
	- dominates:\
	- reset\
	- set\
\pard\fs16\
\
\pard\tx2600\fs28\li2600\cf0
{\b Setting Scanner Attributes}
\pard\tx6000\fs28\fi-3800\li6000\cf0
	- emphasizeScanner:\
\pard\fs16\
\
\pard\tx2600\fs28\li2600\cf0
{\b Printing}
\pard\tx6000\fs28\fi-3800\li6000\cf0
	- printOn:\
\pard\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs36\li1400 Methods\b0\f0\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 normal\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 +{\b normal}\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 A Text Attribute instance with emphasiscode set to 0.\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 new\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 +{\b new}\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 A Text Attribute instance with emphasiscode set to 0.\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 bold\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 +{\b bold}\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 Creates a Textattribute with emphasiscode set to 1.\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 emphasiscode:\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 +{\b emphasiscode}:(unsigned){\i n}\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 A Text Attribute instance with emphasiscode set to {\i n}.  This value may suffice for simple applications, but normally a subclass of {\b TextAttribute} would be used to associate more sophisticated values to a Text Attribute (such as URL of a hypertext link, or such as a Color value, or an X-Windows font etc.).\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 emphasiscode\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 - (unsigned){\b emphasiscode}\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 emphasiscode:\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 -{\b emphasiscode}:(unsigned){\i c}\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 isEqual:\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 - (BOOL){\b isEqual}:{\i attrib}\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 The equality test for TextAttributes is used by RunArray's {\f2 coalesce} method to merge adjacent TextAttribute instances.\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 dominates:\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 - (BOOL){\b dominates}:{\i attrib}\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 Should return YES if the receiver dominates {\i attrib}.  This implies that, when the receiver is added to a list of Text Attributes, attributes that are dominated by the receiver will be removed.\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 The default returns NO, unless both objects are members of the same class and equal to each other (in which case they don't need to be added more than once to the attribute list). \fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 reset\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 -{\b reset}\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 Message that is sent to the attribute before it is added to a list of attributes.  Doesn't do anything by default.\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 set\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 - (BOOL){\b set}\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 Message that is sent to the attribute before it is added to a list of attributes.  If it returns YES (the default), the attribute will be added.  May be overridden to {\i turn off} attributes.\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 emphasizeScanner:\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 -{\b emphasizeScanner}:{\i aScanner}\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 The default implementation of this method simply returns {\b self}.\fs16\
\
\f0\fs28\li2200 Normally a {\i scanner} class (which renders text in some specific format) would send {\f2 emphasizeScanner:} messages with itself as argument to a list of text attributes.  The text attributes can then {\i act} upon the scanner and set text color, font and other formatting properties.\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\f1\b\fs28\li2200 printOn:\f0\b0\
\f0\fs28\li2500 -{\b printOn}:(IOD){\i aFile}\fs16\
\
\fs16\
\
\
}
